problems this days with databases:
1.Inability to scale
2.data inconsistency
3.cost inefficiencies

Cloud SQL:
Cloud SQL is a fully-managed database service that helps you set up, maintain, manage,
   and administer your relational databases on Google Cloud Platform.
You can use Cloud SQL with MySQL, PostgreSQL, or SQL Server.
Maximum cloud sql capacity:3.TB

Use cases for Cloud SQL
Cloud SQL provides a cloud-based alternative to local MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server databases. 
You should use Cloud SQL if you want to spend less time managing your database and more time using it.

Many applications running on Compute Engine, App Engine and other services in Google Cloud use Cloud SQL for database storage.

What is a Cloud SQL instance?
Each Cloud SQL instance is powered by a virtual machine (VM) running on a host Google Cloud server. 
Each VM operates the database program, such as MySQL Server, PostgreSQL, or SQL Server, and service agents 
     that provide supporting services, such as logging and monitoring. 
	 
	
Cloud SQL for MySQL :	
Cloud SQL for MySQL is a fully-managed database service that helps you set up, maintain, manage, and administer 
      your MySQL relational databases on Google Cloud Platform. 
	  

Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL:
Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL is a fully-managed database service that helps you set up, maintain, manage, and administer 
   your PostgreSQL relational databases on Google Cloud Platform.
   
   
cloud spanner:
Cloud Spanner is a fully managed, mission-critical, relational database service that offers transactional consistency at global scale, 
      automatic, synchronous replication for high availability, and support for two SQL dialects: 
	  Google Standard SQL (ANSI 2011 with extensions) and PostgreSQL.

Uses:
1.Upto 99.99% availability
2.zero downtime
3.No maintainance windows
4.proven for large and small windows

advantages:
1.scalability
2.consistency
3.avalability (replication)

security:
1.Data layer encryption
2.IAM integration
3.audit logging
	  
cloud spanner is horizontally scalable RDBMS
capacity: petabytes
large scale database applications
large scale database applications


Differance between cloud SQL and cloud Spanner
cloud SQL:
1.MYSQL,PostgresSQL,SQL server
2.30TB
3.Regional replication

cloud Spanner:
1.Unlimited capacity
2.global replication